---
description: Genezio offers seamless backend  and frontend deployment using a function-as-a-service infrastructure. Deploy your project with a single-command `genezio deploy`.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Admonition from '@theme/Admonition';

# Frontend

Genezio is a Function-as-a-Service platform that allows you to deploy fullstack application in a single-click manner.

:::info
You can deploy projects written in JavaScript or TypeScript.
:::

We recommend you to:

1. [Choose one of our templates](/docs/getting-started/use-a-template.md) to get started.
2. [Migrate your existing project](/docs/getting-started/import-existing-project.md) to Genezio.
3. Create a new project using the `genezio create` command and follow the interactive wizard.

## Supported Frameworks

Genezio supports a wide range of popular frameworks, making it easy to integrate and deploy your existing projects or start new ones with familiar tools.
Here’s a look at some of the frameworks you can use with Genezio:

- **Genezio Functions**: AWS Lambda-compatible functions that run code and handle requests without managing servers.
- [**Genezio Typesafe Classes**](/docs/genezio-typesafe/typesafety.md): Classes that can be deployed as functions with guaranteed client typesafe communication.
- [**Serverless Express.js:**](/docs/frameworks/expressjs.md) Build web applications and APIs with the popular Node.js framework.
- [**Next.js:**](/docs/frameworks/nextjs.md) Develop server-rendered React applications with Next.js.
- **and more...** - to learn more about the supported frameworks, [check the Frameworks section](/docs/frameworks/).

## Deploy your project

With Genezio, backend, frontend or even fullstack projects can be deployed a single command.

### Using the dashboard

In the Genezio dashboard, you can create a new project or import an existing project from a repository and automatically deploy it in CI manner.
Go to the [Genezio Dashboard](https://app.genez.io/new-project) and follow the on-screen instructions.

### Using the CLI

You can deploy your project using the genezio CLI.
Install it by running the following command:

```
npm install -g genezio
```

You can deploy your project by running the following command:

```
genezio deploy
```

Note: You can deploy a frontend-only or backend-only project by adding the `--frontend` or `--backend` flags respectively.

# Frontend deployments

Genezio's frontend deployment offers a simple and cost-effective way to host and serve static websites.
It leverages Amazon S3 in combination with CloudFront CDN (Content Delivery Network) to ensure fast and reliable content delivery to users across the globe.

:::tip
You can deploy all kinds of frontend apps, including React, Angular, Vue.js, Flutter Web, Pure HTML, Jekyll, Hugo, Svelte, Foundation, etc..
:::

## Deploy the frontend project

To deploy your frontend project, add the `frontend` section in your `genezio.yaml`:

```yaml title="genezio.yaml" showLineNumbers
name: my-project
region: us-east-1
yamlVersion: 2
frontend:
  # Specifies the path of your client code.
  path: .
  # Specifies the path to the build directory.
  # This is the folder that will be deployed.
  publish: build
  # The frontend will be deployed as `https://cool-capybara.app.genez.io`,
  subdomain: cool-capybara
  # Scripts will run in the specified `path` folder.
  scripts:
    # The command to build your frontend project. This is custom to your project.
    # It must to populate the specified `publish` folder with a `index.html` file.
    build: npm run build
```

Learn more about the `genezio.yaml` file in the [Configuration File section](/docs/project-structure/genezio-configuration-file).

This command will deploy your application according to the configuration specified in your `genezio.yaml` file:

```
genezio deploy
```

## Genezio Configuration file

The `genezio.yaml` file is essential for deploying your project to the Genezio Cloud.
It tells Genezio how to create your infrastructure (created resources such as databases, enable authentication, deploy functions, host frontend) and deploy your project.

The `genezio.yaml` file is located in the root of your project directory.
It can be automatically generated by the genezio CLI tool using the following commands:

- `genezio create` - will create a project from scratch and generate a corresponding `genezio.yaml` file.
- `genezio deploy` - for Next.js and Nitro projects, the `genezio.yaml` file will be generated automatically.

For more details on the `genezio.yaml` syntax, check the [Genezio Configuration File](/docs/project-structure/genezio-configuration-file "mention") section.

## Redirects and Rewrites

Genezio allows you to configure redirects and rewrites for your frontend application.
This is useful for handling client-side routing in single-page applications (SPAs) or redirecting users to different pages based on certain conditions.

To configure redirects and rewrites, add the `redirects` and `rewrites` sections to your `genezio.yaml` file:

```yaml title="genezio.yaml" showLineNumbers
name: my-project
region: us-east-1
yamlVersion: 2
frontend:
  path: .
  publish: dist
  rewrites:
    - from: /old-path
      to: /new-path
    - from: /old-path/:slugs*/:id
      to: /new-path
  redirects:
    - from: /blog/posts/:id
      to: /home
      status: 302
```

Each redirect or rewrite rule consists of a `from` and `to` field, which specify the source and destination paths, respectively. The `status` field is optional, applies only to redirects and defaults to `301` (permanent redirect).

We curently support wildcards in the `from` field, with the following syntax:

- `:{segment_name}` - matches a path segment
- `:{segment_name}*` - matches one or more path segments

### Behavior

When no rewrites or redirects are specified, any request that does not match an existing file in the `publish` directory will rewrite to `/`. This is useful for SPAs that handle routing on the client side.

If rewrites or redirects are specified, requests that do not match an existing file in the `publish` directory will return a `404` error.

## Testing your project

The Test Interface in the Genezio Dashboard is a Postman-like tool that allows developers to easily craft and send test requests to the deployed backend.
This interface mimics the functionality of Postman, enabling you to create, modify, and execute requests directly within the dashboard, making it simple to test and debug your backend services. Learn more about [Testing](/docs/features/testing).

## Next Steps

Explore more features and capabilities of Genezio by checking out the following tutorials:

- [Web3 Application](https://genezio.com/blog/create-your-first-web3-app/)
- [ChatGPT App](https://genezio.com/blog/create-your-first-app-using-chatgpt/)
- [Shopping Cart Implementation](https://genezio.com/blog/implement-a-shopping-cart-using-typescript-redis-and-react/)
